Why python?
-shallow learning curve
-transparent syntax and semantics 
- good  string-handling functionality.
-As an interpreted language,Python facilitates interactive exploration. 
-As an object-oriented language, Python permits data and methods to be encapsulated and re-used easily. 
-As a dynamic language,Python permits attributes to be added to objects on the fly, and permits variables to be
typed dynamically, facilitating rapid development.
-Python comes with an extensive standard library, including components for graphical programming, numerical pro-
cessing, and web connectivity.
 So in a nutshell Python is heavily used in industry, scientific research, and education around the world.
Python  is  often  praised  for  the  way  it  facilitates  productivity,  quality,  and  main-
tainability of software. Please reffer a sample of Python success sotries at http://www.python.org/about/success/

Define : NLTK
NLTK defines an infrastructure that can be used to build NLP programs in Python. It provides basic classes for representing 
data relevant to natural language processing; standard interfaces for performing tasks such as part-of-speech tagging, 
syntactic parsing, and text classification;and standard implementations for each task that can be combined to solve complex problems.
NLTK comes with extensive documentation. Apart from the basic examples provided in the lectures covering all topics
The website at http://www.nltk.org/  provides API documentation that covers every module, class, and
function in the toolkit, specifying parameters and giving examples of usage. The website also provides many HOWTOs with extensive examples and test cases, intended for
users, developers, and instructors.

Artificial intelligence in language processing ( AILP )
A feild of computer sceicne and linguistics concerned wih the interactions between machine and human natural language ( english )
Natural language is sometime understood as AI-complete  problem because it seemst orequire enoromous knowledge about the outside world
and the ability to manipulate it.
What is NLP?
it refers to AI method of communicating with an intelligent systems using a natural language such as English.
What are the components of NLP?
Natural Language Understandign ( NLU) :1) Mapping the given input into useful representations 2) Analyzing different aspects of the language
Natrual Language generation  ( NLG) : 1)It is the process of producing meaningful phses and sentences in the form of natural langauge 
1) text planning : retreving relevant content from aknoweldge base ( ex: US corpora )
2)Senetence planning : it includes chosing words, forming meaningful phrases, setteing tone of the sentence.
3)text Realization : It involves mapping sentence plan into sentence structure.

What are the ambiguities of NLU?
1)Lexical : at primitive level such as word-level, treating the word "draft" as noun or verb.
2)Syntax level : He lifted the puppy with a blue cap? exactly lifted with what?

3)Referential : referring to something using pronouns: sami went to simran, she said " I am tired" exactly who is tired?


